# Finetuning-LLM

Training Large Language Models (LLMs) on extensive datasets in an unsupervised manner has proven highly effective in creating models capable of a wide range of tasks. These models demonstrate a significant breadth of knowledge and understanding of the world. For most applications, it’s crucial for LLMs to generate text that is contextually consistent and aligned with the intended task and user behavior. This includes developing LLMs that are safe, aligned, and unbiased, or those capable of generating syntactically and functionally correct code, despite the presence of incorrect code in the training data. However, the pre-training process alone does not guarantee specific model behavior. This is where Reinforcement Learning From Human Feedback (RLHF) becomes vital.

RLHF is a technique used to fine-tune LLMs by maximizing a reward function derived from another reward model trained on human feedback from evaluators based on a set of generated samples. This technique is widely used and is considered state-of-the-art. However, RLHF has several drawbacks that limit its effectiveness as a solution.

Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), a newly proposed technique addresses these drawbacks and offers a more robust solution. 

The key insight in Direct Preference Optimization is replacing the complex reward modeling process in RLHF with a simple loss function that directly optimizes for human preferences in closed form. It does this by simply increasing the log probability of the tokens in the human prefered responses, and decreasing the log probability of the tokens in the human disprefered responses, given a preferences dataset, which basically makes the model have an implicit reward function that is directly optimized for human preferences. Through this clever math trick, the process now becomes much simpler and more efficient than RLHF, as it does not require a separate reward model, and it is also more stable, as it does not use other methods like PPO for fine-tuning.
